shiftdown/README.md, before:

# ShiftDown

My computer with i5 3rd generation (i5 3320M) suffers from the updates from
Intel and Windows since Meltdown and Spectre were fixed. When the CPU is
loaded, various IO interfaces have problems, e.g.  access to USB devices and
sound stutters.

What helps is to reduce the priority of the processes that generate the load.

With this knowledge I tried numerous prio tools and process managers, but none
convinced me.

Here now another attempt, which convinces at least me :-)

The program does not need to be configured, because the functionality is very
simple. 

If the total CPU usage rises above 25% the program starts to evaluate the CPU
usage of the processes. All processes with a high CPU usage are changed in
priority to 'BelowNormal' -- the procedure has worked for me.

If the program is terminated, the original priority is restored.

__Against to expectations, the program does not make the computer faster, but
tries to improve multitasking so that all programs get enough CPU time, without
application focus and bells and whistles, it's just to improve the work.__


## System Requirement

- Windows 10 or higher
- .NET 4.7.x or higher


# Download

The service is [part of the virtual environment](https://github.com/seanox/virtual-environment/tree/main/platform/Resources/platform/Settings)
but can also be downloaded and used separately.

https://github.com/seanox/virtual-environment/tree/main/shiftdown/Releases


# Usage

The program is installed as a service, which requires administration
privileges.

```
shiftdown.exe install
shiftdown.exe uninstall
```

To update the program: Stop the service, replace the program file (exe) and
then start the service again.

The service supports start, pause, continue and stop.

```
shiftdown.exe start
shiftdown.exe pause
shiftdown.exe continue
shiftdown.exe stop
```

When the program ends, the priority of the changed processes will be restored.


# Changes (Change Log)
## 1.2.0 20220107 (summary of the current version)
BF: Correction of the unwanted program end when the service pauses  
BF: Correction of the EventLog  
CR: Change to use net.exe for start, pause, continue and stop  
CR: Optimization of process scanning  
CR: Added a multi-level priority decrease  
CR: Change the service own priority to AboveNormal

[Read more](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/seanox/virtual-environment-creator/master/shiftdown/CHANGES)

Commit message:

#0000 Platform: Unification of the platform icons #0000 Platform: Unification of (sub) project structure

shiftdown/README.md, after:

# ShiftDown
My computer with i5 3rd generation (i5 3320M) suffers from the updates from
Intel and Windows since Meltdown and Spectre were fixed. When the CPU is
loaded, various IO interfaces have problems, e.g.  access to USB devices and
sound stutters.

What helps is to reduce the priority of the processes that generate the load.

With this knowledge I tried numerous prio tools and process managers, but none
convinced me.

Here now another attempt, which convinces at least me :-)

The program does not need to be configured, because the functionality is very
simple. 

If the total CPU usage rises above 25% the program starts to evaluate the CPU
usage of the processes. All processes with a high CPU usage are changed in
priority to 'BelowNormal' -- the procedure has worked for me.

If the program is terminated, the original priority is restored.

__Against to expectations, the program does not make the computer faster, but
tries to improve multitasking so that all programs get enough CPU time, without
application focus and bells and whistles, it's just to improve the work.__


# System Requirement
- Windows 10 or higher
- .NET 4.7.x or higher


# Download
The service is [part of the virtual environment](https://github.com/seanox/virtual-environment/tree/main/platform/Resources/platform/Settings)
but can also be downloaded and used separately.

https://github.com/seanox/virtual-environment/tree/main/shiftdown/Releases


# Usage
The program is installed as a service, which requires administration
privileges.

```
shiftdown.exe install
shiftdown.exe uninstall
```

To update the program: Stop the service, replace the program file (exe) and
then start the service again.

The service supports start, pause, continue and stop.

```
shiftdown.exe start
shiftdown.exe pause
shiftdown.exe continue
shiftdown.exe stop
```

When the program ends, the priority of the changed processes will be restored.


# Changes (Change Log)
## 1.3.0 2022xxxx (summary of the upcoming version)  
BF: Settings: Optimization and corrections  
CR: Settings: Unification of the namespace  

[Read more](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/seanox/virtual-environment-creator/master/shiftdown/CHANGES)
